INSTALL.md, before:

# Zola Installation Guide

Zola is a free, open-source AI chat app with multi-model support. This guide covers how to install and run Zola on different platforms, including Docker deployment options.

![Zola screenshot](./public/cover_zola.jpg)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.x or later
- npm or yarn
- Git
- Supabase account (for auth and storage)
- API keys for supported AI models (OpenAI, Mistral, etc.)

## Environment Setup

First, you'll need to set up your environment variables. Create a `.env.local` file in the root of the project with the variables from `.env.example`

```bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE=your_supabase_service_role_key

# OpenAI
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key

# Mistral
MISTRAL_API_KEY=your_mistral_api_key

# OpenRouter
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=your_openrouter_api_key

# CSRF Protection
CSRF_SECRET=your_csrf_secret_key


# Exa
EXA_API_KEY=your_exa_api_key

# Gemini
GOOGLE_GENERATIVE_AI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key

# Anthropic
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_api_key

# Xai
XAI_API_KEY=your_xai_api_key


# Optional: Set the URL for production
# NEXT_PUBLIC_VERCEL_URL=your_production_url
```

A `.env.example` file is included in the repository for reference. Copy this file to `.env.local` and update the values with your credentials.

### Generating a CSRF Secret

The `CSRF_SECRET` is used to protect your application against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. You need to generate a secure random string for this value. Here are a few ways to generate one:

#### Using Node.js

```bash
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

#### Using OpenSSL

```bash
openssl rand -hex 32
```

#### Using Python

```bash
python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

Copy the generated value and add it to your `.env.local` file as the `CSRF_SECRET` value.

#### Google OAuth Authentication

1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to Authentication > Providers
3. Find the "Google" provider
4. Enable it by toggling the switch
5. Configure the Google OAuth credentials:
   - You'll need to set up OAuth 2.0 credentials in the Google Cloud Console
   - Add your application's redirect URL: https://[YOUR_PROJECT_REF].supabase.co/auth/v1/callback
   - Get the Client ID and Client Secret from Google Cloud Console
   - Add these credentials to the Google provider settings in Supabase

Here are the detailed steps to set up Google OAuth:

1. Go to the Google Cloud Console
2. Create a new project or select an existing one
3. Enable the Google+ API
4. Go to Credentials > Create Credentials > OAuth Client ID
5. Configure the OAuth consent screen if you haven't already
6. Set the application type as "Web application"
7. Add these authorized redirect URIs:

- https://[YOUR_PROJECT_REF].supabase.co/auth/v1/callback
- http://localhost:3000/auth/callback (for local development)

8. Copy the Client ID and Client Secret
9. Go back to your Supabase dashboard
10. Paste the Client ID and Client Secret in the Google provider settings
11. Save the changes

### Database Schema

Create the following tables in your Supabase SQL editor:

```sql
-- Users table
CREATE TABLE users (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL, -- Assuming the PK is from auth.users, typically not nullable
  email TEXT NOT NULL,
  anonymous BOOLEAN,
  daily_message_count INTEGER,
  daily_reset TIMESTAMPTZ,
  display_name TEXT,
  message_count INTEGER,
  preferred_model TEXT,
  premium BOOLEAN,
  profile_image TEXT,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  last_active_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  daily_pro_message_count INTEGER,
  daily_pro_reset TIMESTAMPTZ,
  CONSTRAINT users_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (id) REFERENCES auth.users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE -- Explicit FK definition
);

-- Agents table
CREATE TABLE agents (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  name TEXT NOT NULL,
  slug TEXT NOT NULL,
  description TEXT NOT NULL,
  avatar_url TEXT,
  system_prompt TEXT NOT NULL,
  model_preference TEXT,
  is_public BOOLEAN DEFAULT false NOT NULL,
  remixable BOOLEAN DEFAULT false NOT NULL,
  tools_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT false NOT NULL,
  example_inputs TEXT[],
  tags TEXT[],
  category TEXT,
  creator_id UUID,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ,
  tools TEXT[],
  max_steps INTEGER,
  mcp_config JSONB, -- Representing the object structure as JSONB
  CONSTRAINT agents_creator_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (creator_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE SET NULL -- Changed to SET NULL based on schema, could also be CASCADE
);

-- Chats table
CREATE TABLE chats (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  user_id UUID NOT NULL,
  title TEXT,
  model TEXT,
  system_prompt TEXT,
  agent_id UUID,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  public BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE NOT NULL, -- Added NOT NULL based on TS type
  CONSTRAINT chats_user_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT chats_agent_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (agent_id) REFERENCES agents(id) ON DELETE SET NULL -- Assuming SET NULL, adjust if needed
);

-- Messages table
-- Note: Supabase types define id as number, typically SERIAL or BIGSERIAL in PG.
-- role is a string union, best represented as TEXT with potential CHECK constraint.
-- experimental_attachments and parts are JSONB.
CREATE TABLE messages (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, -- Using SERIAL for auto-incrementing integer ID
  chat_id UUID NOT NULL,
  content TEXT,
  role TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (role IN ('system', 'user', 'assistant', 'data')), -- Added CHECK constraint
  experimental_attachments JSONB, -- Storing Attachment[] as JSONB
  parts JSONB,
  tool_invocations JSONB,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  CONSTRAINT messages_chat_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (chat_id) REFERENCES chats(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- Chat attachments table
CREATE TABLE chat_attachments (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  chat_id UUID NOT NULL,
  user_id UUID NOT NULL,
  file_url TEXT NOT NULL,
  file_name TEXT,
  file_type TEXT,
  file_size INTEGER, -- Assuming INTEGER for file size
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  CONSTRAINT chat_attachments_chat_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (chat_id) REFERENCES chats(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT chat_attachments_user_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- Feedback table
CREATE TABLE feedback (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  user_id UUID NOT NULL,
  message TEXT NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  CONSTRAINT feedback_user_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- RLS (Row Level Security) Reminder
-- Ensure RLS is enabled on these tables in your Supabase dashboard
-- and appropriate policies are created.
-- Example policies (adapt as needed):
-- ALTER TABLE users ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
-- CREATE POLICY "Users can view their own data." ON users FOR SELECT USING (auth.uid() = id);
-- CREATE POLICY "Users can update their own data." ON users FOR UPDATE USING (auth.uid() = id);
-- ... add policies for other tables (agents, chats, messages, etc.) ...
```

### Seeding Initial Data

After creating the tables, you can seed the database with the default agents provided by Zola.

To run the seed script:

- Navigate to the SQL Editor in your Supabase project dashboard.
- Open the `supabase/seed.sql` file from the Zola project codebase.
- Copy the entire content of `seed.sql`.
- Paste the content into the Supabase SQL Editor.
- Click the "Run" button.

### Storage Setup

Create the buckets `chat-attachments` and `avatars` in your Supabase dashboard:

1. Go to Storage in your Supabase dashboard
2. Click "New bucket" and create two buckets: `chat-attachments` and `avatars`
3. Configure public access permissions for both buckets

#### Agent Avatar Configuration

For agent profile pictures to work properly:

1. Create an `agents` folder inside your `avatars` bucket:

   - Navigate to the `avatars` bucket
   - Click "Create folder" and name it `agents`

2. Upload agent avatar images

3. Set up public access for the avatars bucket:
   - Go to "Configuration" tab for the `avatars` bucket
   - Under "Row Level Security (RLS)" ensure it's disabled or create a policy:
   ```sql
   CREATE POLICY "Public Read Access" ON storage.objects
   FOR SELECT USING (bucket_id = 'avatars');
   ```

## Local Installation

### macOS / Linux

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ibelick/zola.git
cd zola

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev
```

### Windows

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ibelick/zola.git
cd zola

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

## Supabase Setup

Zola requires Supabase for authentication and storage. Follow these steps to set up your Supabase project:

1. Create a new project at [Supabase](https://supabase.com)
2. Set up the database schema using the SQL script below
3. Create storage buckets for chat attachments
4. Configure authentication providers (Google OAuth)
5. Get your API keys and add them to your `.env.local` file

## Docker Installation

### Option 1: Single Container with Docker

Create a `Dockerfile` in the root of your project if that doesnt exist:

```dockerfile
# Base Node.js image
FROM node:18-alpine AS base

# Install dependencies only when needed
FROM base AS deps
WORKDIR /app

# Copy package files
COPY package.json package-lock.json* ./

# Install dependencies with clean slate
RUN npm ci

# Rebuild the source code only when needed
FROM base AS builder
WORKDIR /app

# Copy node_modules from deps
COPY --from=deps /app/node_modules ./node_modules

# Copy all project files
COPY . .

# Set Next.js telemetry to disabled
ENV NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED 1

# Build the application
RUN npm run build

# Production image, copy all the files and run next
FROM base AS runner
WORKDIR /app

# Set environment variables
ENV NODE_ENV production
ENV NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED 1

# Create a non-root user
RUN addgroup --system --gid 1001 nodejs
RUN adduser --system --uid 1001 nextjs

# Set the correct permission for prerender cache
RUN mkdir -p .next/cache && chown -R nextjs:nodejs .next/cache

# Copy necessary files for production
COPY --from=builder /app/public ./public
COPY --from=builder --chown=nextjs:nodejs /app/.next/standalone ./
COPY --from=builder --chown=nextjs:nodejs /app/.next/static ./.next/static

# Switch to non-root user
USER nextjs

# Expose application port
EXPOSE 3000

# Set environment variable for port
ENV PORT 3000
ENV HOSTNAME 0.0.0.0

# Health check to verify container is running properly
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=5s --start-period=5s --retries=3 CMD wget --no-verbose --tries=1 --spider http://localhost:3000/ || exit 1

# Start the application
CMD ["node", "server.js"]
```

Build and run the Docker container:

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker build -t zola .

# Run the container
docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -e NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url \
  -e NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key \
  -e SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE=your_supabase_service_role_key \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key \
  -e MISTRAL_API_KEY=your_mistral_api_key \
  zola
```

### Option 2: Docker Compose

Create a `docker-compose.yml` file in the root of your project:

```yaml
version: "3"

services:
  zola:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
      - NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=${NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL}
      - NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=${NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY}
      - SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE=${SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE}
      - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
      - MISTRAL_API_KEY=${MISTRAL_API_KEY}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Run with Docker Compose:

```bash
# Start the services
docker-compose up -d

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop the services
docker-compose down
```

## Production Deployment

### Deploy to Vercel

The easiest way to deploy Zola is using Vercel:

1. Push your code to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, etc.)
2. Import the project into Vercel
3. Configure your environment variables
4. Deploy

```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm install -g vercel

# Deploy
vercel
```

### Self-Hosted Production

For a self-hosted production environment, you'll need to build the application and run it:

```bash
# Build the application
npm run build

# Start the production server
npm start
```

## Configuration Options

You can customize various aspects of Zola by modifying the configuration files:

- `app/lib/config.ts`: Configure AI models, daily message limits, etc.
- `.env.local`: Set environment variables and API keys

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection to Supabase fails**

   - Check your Supabase URL and API keys
   - Ensure your IP address is allowed in Supabase

2. **AI models not responding**

   - Verify your API keys for OpenAI/Mistral
   - Check that the models specified in config are available

3. **Docker container exits immediately**
   - Check logs using `docker logs <container_id>`
   - Ensure all required environment variables are set

## Community and Support

- GitHub Issues: Report bugs or request features
- GitHub Discussions: Ask questions and share ideas

## License

Apache License 2.0

Commit message:

Adding supabase anonymous signin for guest users (#136)

INSTALL.md, after:

# Zola Installation Guide

Zola is a free, open-source AI chat app with multi-model support. This guide covers how to install and run Zola on different platforms, including Docker deployment options.

![Zola screenshot](./public/cover_zola.jpg)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.x or later
- npm or yarn
- Git
- Supabase account (for auth and storage)
- API keys for supported AI models (OpenAI, Mistral, etc.)

## Environment Setup

First, you'll need to set up your environment variables. Create a `.env.local` file in the root of the project with the variables from `.env.example`

```bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE=your_supabase_service_role_key

# OpenAI
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key

# Mistral
MISTRAL_API_KEY=your_mistral_api_key

# OpenRouter
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=your_openrouter_api_key

# CSRF Protection
CSRF_SECRET=your_csrf_secret_key


# Exa
EXA_API_KEY=your_exa_api_key

# Gemini
GOOGLE_GENERATIVE_AI_API_KEY=your_gemini_api_key

# Anthropic
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=your_anthropic_api_key

# Xai
XAI_API_KEY=your_xai_api_key


# Optional: Set the URL for production
# NEXT_PUBLIC_VERCEL_URL=your_production_url
```

A `.env.example` file is included in the repository for reference. Copy this file to `.env.local` and update the values with your credentials.

### Generating a CSRF Secret

The `CSRF_SECRET` is used to protect your application against Cross-Site Request Forgery attacks. You need to generate a secure random string for this value. Here are a few ways to generate one:

#### Using Node.js

```bash
node -e "console.log(require('crypto').randomBytes(32).toString('hex'))"
```

#### Using OpenSSL

```bash
openssl rand -hex 32
```

#### Using Python

```bash
python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_hex(32))"
```

Copy the generated value and add it to your `.env.local` file as the `CSRF_SECRET` value.

#### Google OAuth Authentication

1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to Authentication > Providers
3. Find the "Google" provider
4. Enable it by toggling the switch
5. Configure the Google OAuth credentials:
   - You'll need to set up OAuth 2.0 credentials in the Google Cloud Console
   - Add your application's redirect URL: https://[YOUR_PROJECT_REF].supabase.co/auth/v1/callback
   - Get the Client ID and Client Secret from Google Cloud Console
   - Add these credentials to the Google provider settings in Supabase

Here are the detailed steps to set up Google OAuth:

1. Go to the Google Cloud Console
2. Create a new project or select an existing one
3. Enable the Google+ API
4. Go to Credentials > Create Credentials > OAuth Client ID
5. Configure the OAuth consent screen if you haven't already
6. Set the application type as "Web application"
7. Add these authorized redirect URIs:

- https://[YOUR_PROJECT_REF].supabase.co/auth/v1/callback
- http://localhost:3000/auth/callback (for local development)

8. Copy the Client ID and Client Secret
9. Go back to your Supabase dashboard
10. Paste the Client ID and Client Secret in the Google provider settings
11. Save the changes

#### Guest user setup

1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Navigate to Authentication > Providers
3. Toggle on "Allow anonymous sign-ins"

This allows users limited access to try the product before properly creating an account.

### Database Schema

Create the following tables in your Supabase SQL editor:

```sql
-- Users table
CREATE TABLE users (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY NOT NULL, -- Assuming the PK is from auth.users, typically not nullable
  email TEXT NOT NULL,
  anonymous BOOLEAN,
  daily_message_count INTEGER,
  daily_reset TIMESTAMPTZ,
  display_name TEXT,
  message_count INTEGER,
  preferred_model TEXT,
  premium BOOLEAN,
  profile_image TEXT,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  last_active_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  daily_pro_message_count INTEGER,
  daily_pro_reset TIMESTAMPTZ,
  CONSTRAINT users_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (id) REFERENCES auth.users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE -- Explicit FK definition
);

-- Agents table
CREATE TABLE agents (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  name TEXT NOT NULL,
  slug TEXT NOT NULL,
  description TEXT NOT NULL,
  avatar_url TEXT,
  system_prompt TEXT NOT NULL,
  model_preference TEXT,
  is_public BOOLEAN DEFAULT false NOT NULL,
  remixable BOOLEAN DEFAULT false NOT NULL,
  tools_enabled BOOLEAN DEFAULT false NOT NULL,
  example_inputs TEXT[],
  tags TEXT[],
  category TEXT,
  creator_id UUID,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ,
  tools TEXT[],
  max_steps INTEGER,
  mcp_config JSONB, -- Representing the object structure as JSONB
  CONSTRAINT agents_creator_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (creator_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE SET NULL -- Changed to SET NULL based on schema, could also be CASCADE
);

-- Chats table
CREATE TABLE chats (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  user_id UUID NOT NULL,
  title TEXT,
  model TEXT,
  system_prompt TEXT,
  agent_id UUID,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  public BOOLEAN DEFAULT FALSE NOT NULL, -- Added NOT NULL based on TS type
  CONSTRAINT chats_user_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT chats_agent_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (agent_id) REFERENCES agents(id) ON DELETE SET NULL -- Assuming SET NULL, adjust if needed
);

-- Messages table
-- Note: Supabase types define id as number, typically SERIAL or BIGSERIAL in PG.
-- role is a string union, best represented as TEXT with potential CHECK constraint.
-- experimental_attachments and parts are JSONB.
CREATE TABLE messages (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, -- Using SERIAL for auto-incrementing integer ID
  chat_id UUID NOT NULL,
  content TEXT,
  role TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (role IN ('system', 'user', 'assistant', 'data')), -- Added CHECK constraint
  experimental_attachments JSONB, -- Storing Attachment[] as JSONB
  parts JSONB,
  tool_invocations JSONB,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  CONSTRAINT messages_chat_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (chat_id) REFERENCES chats(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- Chat attachments table
CREATE TABLE chat_attachments (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  chat_id UUID NOT NULL,
  user_id UUID NOT NULL,
  file_url TEXT NOT NULL,
  file_name TEXT,
  file_type TEXT,
  file_size INTEGER, -- Assuming INTEGER for file size
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  CONSTRAINT chat_attachments_chat_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (chat_id) REFERENCES chats(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT chat_attachments_user_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- Feedback table
CREATE TABLE feedback (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4(),
  user_id UUID NOT NULL,
  message TEXT NOT NULL,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  CONSTRAINT feedback_user_id_fkey FOREIGN KEY (user_id) REFERENCES users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- RLS (Row Level Security) Reminder
-- Ensure RLS is enabled on these tables in your Supabase dashboard
-- and appropriate policies are created.
-- Example policies (adapt as needed):
-- ALTER TABLE users ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;
-- CREATE POLICY "Users can view their own data." ON users FOR SELECT USING (auth.uid() = id);
-- CREATE POLICY "Users can update their own data." ON users FOR UPDATE USING (auth.uid() = id);
-- ... add policies for other tables (agents, chats, messages, etc.) ...
```

### Seeding Initial Data

After creating the tables, you can seed the database with the default agents provided by Zola.

To run the seed script:

- Navigate to the SQL Editor in your Supabase project dashboard.
- Open the `supabase/seed.sql` file from the Zola project codebase.
- Copy the entire content of `seed.sql`.
- Paste the content into the Supabase SQL Editor.
- Click the "Run" button.

### Storage Setup

Create the buckets `chat-attachments` and `avatars` in your Supabase dashboard:

1. Go to Storage in your Supabase dashboard
2. Click "New bucket" and create two buckets: `chat-attachments` and `avatars`
3. Configure public access permissions for both buckets

#### Agent Avatar Configuration

For agent profile pictures to work properly:

1. Create an `agents` folder inside your `avatars` bucket:

   - Navigate to the `avatars` bucket
   - Click "Create folder" and name it `agents`

2. Upload agent avatar images

3. Set up public access for the avatars bucket:
   - Go to "Configuration" tab for the `avatars` bucket
   - Under "Row Level Security (RLS)" ensure it's disabled or create a policy:
   ```sql
   CREATE POLICY "Public Read Access" ON storage.objects
   FOR SELECT USING (bucket_id = 'avatars');
   ```

## Local Installation

### macOS / Linux

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ibelick/zola.git
cd zola

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev
```

### Windows

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/ibelick/zola.git
cd zola

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run the development server
npm run dev
```

The application will be available at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000).

## Supabase Setup

Zola requires Supabase for authentication and storage. Follow these steps to set up your Supabase project:

1. Create a new project at [Supabase](https://supabase.com)
2. Set up the database schema using the SQL script below
3. Create storage buckets for chat attachments
4. Configure authentication providers (Google OAuth)
5. Get your API keys and add them to your `.env.local` file

## Docker Installation

### Option 1: Single Container with Docker

Create a `Dockerfile` in the root of your project if that doesnt exist:

```dockerfile
# Base Node.js image
FROM node:18-alpine AS base

# Install dependencies only when needed
FROM base AS deps
WORKDIR /app

# Copy package files
COPY package.json package-lock.json* ./

# Install dependencies with clean slate
RUN npm ci

# Rebuild the source code only when needed
FROM base AS builder
WORKDIR /app

# Copy node_modules from deps
COPY --from=deps /app/node_modules ./node_modules

# Copy all project files
COPY . .

# Set Next.js telemetry to disabled
ENV NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED 1

# Build the application
RUN npm run build

# Production image, copy all the files and run next
FROM base AS runner
WORKDIR /app

# Set environment variables
ENV NODE_ENV production
ENV NEXT_TELEMETRY_DISABLED 1

# Create a non-root user
RUN addgroup --system --gid 1001 nodejs
RUN adduser --system --uid 1001 nextjs

# Set the correct permission for prerender cache
RUN mkdir -p .next/cache && chown -R nextjs:nodejs .next/cache

# Copy necessary files for production
COPY --from=builder /app/public ./public
COPY --from=builder --chown=nextjs:nodejs /app/.next/standalone ./
COPY --from=builder --chown=nextjs:nodejs /app/.next/static ./.next/static

# Switch to non-root user
USER nextjs

# Expose application port
EXPOSE 3000

# Set environment variable for port
ENV PORT 3000
ENV HOSTNAME 0.0.0.0

# Health check to verify container is running properly
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=5s --start-period=5s --retries=3 CMD wget --no-verbose --tries=1 --spider http://localhost:3000/ || exit 1

# Start the application
CMD ["node", "server.js"]
```

Build and run the Docker container:

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker build -t zola .

# Run the container
docker run -p 3000:3000 \
  -e NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url \
  -e NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key \
  -e SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE=your_supabase_service_role_key \
  -e OPENAI_API_KEY=your_openai_api_key \
  -e MISTRAL_API_KEY=your_mistral_api_key \
  zola
```

### Option 2: Docker Compose

Create a `docker-compose.yml` file in the root of your project:

```yaml
version: "3"

services:
  zola:
    build:
      context: .
      dockerfile: Dockerfile
    ports:
      - "3000:3000"
    environment:
      - NODE_ENV=production
      - NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=${NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL}
      - NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=${NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY}
      - SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE=${SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE}
      - OPENAI_API_KEY=${OPENAI_API_KEY}
      - MISTRAL_API_KEY=${MISTRAL_API_KEY}
    restart: unless-stopped
```

Run with Docker Compose:

```bash
# Start the services
docker-compose up -d

# View logs
docker-compose logs -f

# Stop the services
docker-compose down
```

## Production Deployment

### Deploy to Vercel

The easiest way to deploy Zola is using Vercel:

1. Push your code to a Git repository (GitHub, GitLab, etc.)
2. Import the project into Vercel
3. Configure your environment variables
4. Deploy

```bash
# Install Vercel CLI
npm install -g vercel

# Deploy
vercel
```

### Self-Hosted Production

For a self-hosted production environment, you'll need to build the application and run it:

```bash
# Build the application
npm run build

# Start the production server
npm start
```

## Configuration Options

You can customize various aspects of Zola by modifying the configuration files:

- `app/lib/config.ts`: Configure AI models, daily message limits, etc.
- `.env.local`: Set environment variables and API keys

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **Connection to Supabase fails**

   - Check your Supabase URL and API keys
   - Ensure your IP address is allowed in Supabase

2. **AI models not responding**

   - Verify your API keys for OpenAI/Mistral
   - Check that the models specified in config are available

3. **Docker container exits immediately**
   - Check logs using `docker logs <container_id>`
   - Ensure all required environment variables are set

## Community and Support

- GitHub Issues: Report bugs or request features
- GitHub Discussions: Ask questions and share ideas

## License

Apache License 2.0
